This repository contains the data and codes for the UNICEF Data and Analytics P3 technical evaluation. The dev work was done on a separate repository which can be shared upon request.

## Assignment details

Two tasks were assigned under this evaluation:

1. **Task 1:** Calculating population-weighted estimates for two indicators based on their current status against targets.
2. **Task 2:** A data perspective using Zimbabwe MICS data. However, Task 2 has different instructions, with one requesting an open-ended exercise and the other requesting data, figures, and tables on a series of steps. The author in Task 2 aimed to reconcile the two to cover both asks.

The final output generated is an HTML file that includes both Task 1 and Task 2.

## Folder structure

This repository has a main directory and three sub-directories.

### **Sub-directories**

The three sub-directories from the main directory are:

#### **`01_rawdata`**

This folder contains the data that was shared for the assessment.

#### **`02_codes`**

This directory includes the codes required to reproduce the analysis for Task 1 and Task 2:

- **user_packages.R:** This is the second script that must be run before running the codes in the sub-directory `02_codes`.

- **`0201_task1`**: This folder includes three scripts arranged sequentially to produce data for Task 1. 
- **`0202_task2`**: This folder includes three scripts arranged sequentially to produce data for Task 2.

#### **`03_Output`**

This directory contains all the files generated by running `02_codes`.

### **Main directory**
In addition to the sub-directories, the main directory also includes:

- **00_user_profile.R:** This script must be run before running any other scripts. Please make sure to edit this script to set up your profile before running it.
  
- **run_P3_assessment.R:** This script runs through the codes sequentially to generate the final output in HTML format.

- **P3_doc.qarto:** Qarto file that renders the final output

- **P3_doc.html:** This is the final HTML output produced by running the analysis.

- **p3assessment.rproj file:** Automatically generate when a new project is created using R studio and helps ensure continuty/collaboration


## Instuctions to reproduce analysis

#### Option 1
- Run **user_profile.R:** making sure to update the script to add your information
- Run **run_P3_assessment.R:** which will sequentially run through all scripts and produce the final HTML output

#### Option 2
- Run **user_profile.R** making sure to update the script to add your information
- Run each function in the sub-directory `02_codes`, starting with **user_packages.R:** followed by the scripts in `0201_task1` and then `0202_task2`, finally run `p3_doc.qmd`.
